**CONNECTION MANAGEMENT**

<div>Before Exchanging data, you have to establish a connection. Then, you have to agree on connection parameters.&nbsp;<br>When this is done, you can send and receive data. As we have established the TCP connection.&nbsp;</div>

When we create a Socket (“Pasive”), it is waiting &nbsp;for accepting the request. When it is recieved the connection is established. No need for a 3 way-handshake (“3 hellos”), 2 are sufficient.&nbsp;

### *Reset Flag*

RESET: abortion of a TCP connection
Causes: 
1. Sequence numbers impossible
2. The destination port is not in use (not open) 

> ACK = Acknowledgment 

Sends SYN x -> Receives SYN x -> Sends RST 0, ACK x+1 -> Receives RST 0, ACK+1 [Application error]

Both ends can Reject the connection. 

### *TCP Options: MSS* 

Each end of the connection announces its MSS (Maximum Segment Size) in the SYN segment: 
* If a host A announces MSS = 100 bytes, segments with more than MSS bytes cannot be sent to it
* by Default MSS = 536 bytes. 

> IP Header + TCP Header + Data (MSS)

### *TCP Options: Windows Scaling* 

TCP: Hosts agree to limit the amount of unacknowledged data that can be in transit at any given time: 
+ This is referred to as the *window size* and is communicated via a 16 bit field in the TCP header
  + Max. Receive window is only 65,535
  + If RTT * vtrans > 65535 => It wastes potential throughput   
+ SOLUTIONS: 
  + Window scaling simply extends the 16bit window field to 32 bits in length
  + By using the window scale option, the receive window size may be increased up to a Max. value of 1,073,725,440. 

> $2^n$, where n is the window scaling option (MAX 14) 

### *TCP Options: Selective Acknoledgement*

+ Sack-Permitted Option: 
  + This option may be sent in a SYN by a TCP that has been extended to receive the SCAL option once the connection has opened
  + It **MUST NOT** be sent on non-SYN segments
+ The SACK option is to be ussed to convey extended acknowledgement info from the reciver to the sender over an established TCP connection. 
+ Cumulative ACKs cannnot confirm the reception of segments out of order (May cause unnecessary retransmissions) 
+ The Selective ACKs (SACK) permits the reception of out the order segment. 
  + Each block represents recieved bytes of data that are contiguous and isolated. 

### *TCP Options: Timestamp*

+ Timestamp is used to calculate more accurately the RTT 
+ The Timestamps option carries two-four byte timestamp fields
  + The TSval field contains the current value of the timestamp clock of the TCP sending the option (only valid if it is accepted, otherwise is 0) 
  + The TSecr field is not valid if the ACK bit is set in the TCP header 
+ You have to substract the number of TSecr (Timestamp echo replace) to the time value so you can obtain the RTT. 

### *Closing a connection* 

+ Client, Server each close their side of connection 
  + Send the TCP segment with FIN bit = 1
+ Resond ti received FIN with ACK
  + On receiveing FIN, ACK can be combined with own FIN 
+ Simultaneous FIN exchanges can be handled 
